And yes, it's not bad.
I mean, you could go ahead and
write a bunch of unit tests for
a bunch of code with this.
But I don't know if you
would want to because one,
the reporting mechanism
is not that easy to read.
Can you imagine if you had
like 20 tests fail, and
this was just like what you pulled open
times 20 inside of a log file on your
server somewhere like this would be
terrible, right and the CI or GitHub.
You wouldn't want to see this
be really hard to parse through.
So the reporting is bad.
And it just really wasn't that flexible.
What if we, like right now, I don't have
like any formatting up here about what I'm
actually testing, what piece of unit and
then what I'm testing that unit four.
I logged it here so you can see it,
but it doesn't really stand out so
it's really hard to see.
And I don't really get any indication
of like, how many tests I ran,
how long the test took to ran,
how many failed,
how many passed just like
the statistics on that.
That's not saying we can't make it,
using the assert lib module.
We could totally make all that stuff.
But again, why would you reinvent
the wheel when there's already good
stuff out there?
So we're going to use one of those things,
and there's so many of them and they
pretty much all have been piggybacking
on a really popular one called Jasmine.
I think that was the first one
that really took this approach, so
Jasmine came out long time ago, and then
Mocha came out and stood on top of that.
And that was Mocha's choice for
quit a long time.
But now year on Jest converging
on two called jest, and
that what we gonna use, we gonna use
jest again it on our Facebook and
see if it just gonna roll with this
open source JavaScript stuff, right?
So let's do that, let's install some jest.
So we'll say npn install jest but
we're gonna say save.dev and not save.
That's because jest is
gonna be a dev dependency.
So a dev dependency is
exactly like a dependency.
But it's meant to be for
development as in.
It is not your app does not depend on
jest being installed for it to operate.
If jest was not installed in this
application, the ad function would still
do what it's supposed to do
because it doesn't import jest.
It doesn't use jest.
Jest consumes our app so
therefore it's a dev dependency.
When our app is executed by the node
interpreter, it's not gonna include jest,
it doesn't need it.
So it's a dev dependency.
And the reason that's important is
because, when you deploy or you publish to
NPM, and someone's pulling in your code,
they don't need your dev dependencies.
Because they're never going to run tests.
They're never gonna run the build script.
It should already been built, and
you should have already tested it.
So you don't want to ship those extra
dependencies on someone's machine.
Same thing for deploying, if you already
built inside of a CI or something like
that, you don't need a lot of those
dependencies to be sitting up there.
So don't even install them.
So dev dependencies just basically give
you another Boolean to install lines, so
you can tell NPM.
Install jest the dependencies or
install just the dev dependencies or
install all the dependencies.
So it really just depends
how you want to do it.
It's just another flag that you
can basically Boolean off on when
you do an install.
All right, so now that we have jest,
we can switch this over.
Actually, we'll leave this one and we'll
just write some better tests that we can
kind of compare, so
we'll write some more code here.
I'm going to open up a new file, and
I want to call this one utils.
And I'm actually going to do a js here.
I know we said we're going to mjs this
whole time, so this might be confusing.
But as of right now,
the current version of jest does not
support mjs files out of the box without
some type of configuration that I think is
a little out of scope of this exercise.
So I don't want to cover that.
But the next version of jest
that you can install but
just beta does support it with
some small configuration, but
also didn't want to inflate and
confuse anyone with that configuration.
So we're just gonna just switch to js and
use common js, for the course of jest.
But that's not going to determine
how you use jest is still gonna work
exactly the same.
It's just determining what
type of modules we can use.
So we will be using common js here for
Jess, so bear with me.
I do have some code though, that I want
to test so we're gonna go grab that code.
It's really not doing anything and
it is this code right here.
So here's the code that we're gonna test.
I'm literally just gonna copy and paste it
because this is not the important part.
The important part is
the test that we're writing.
So I'm gonna paste that in here.
And just to go through it, so
we kind of know what we're doing.
I have a delay function up here
that I'm using just a simulate
asynchronous program.
We won't be testing that, have a users
array that's basically the database.
And then the two functions that we will be
testing will be to get new user function,
which is a synchronous or asynchronous
function that queries the database for
a user that has this ID.
And it tries to, if it doesn't see that
user or throw an error, if it does,
it'll return to user.
The other function that we will be
testing is gonna be map object to array.
It takes an object and a callback.
And it basically maps over that object and
puts all the results inside of an array.
So those are two functions we
will be testing with jest.
So now I'm gonna make
a new test file here and
I'm gonna call this utils.tests or
you can even say spec I
like spec.js like that.
And started by writing some tests.
So to sweet about writing test with
something like jest how we're going to
execute this and that's really important
because it means we don't really
have to import a lot of stuff.
So what I'm saying is,
if we head over to the package JSON,
which I don't have,
I need to actually create that.
So I'm just gonna say npm init like that,
there we go.
And what's crazy is that even though
I created the package JSON later,
after I already installed,
you can see NPM was smart enough to
add the dependencies that I had.
Wasn't too smart to put just in the
dependencies and not the dev dependencies.
But there's no way you could have known
that it was a dev dependency when it
wasn't here already.
So it kind of got there.
I should have emitted before I
installed but, it is what it is.
So the sweet thing is we can
just hijack this test command.
That we just put just here like that.
And because we're executing the jests
tests and the jests environment with
the jest CLI we don't have to actually
import any of the stuff that jest has.
It's just injected to us globally,
because it's executed in a jest context,
which is really cool.
So what does that actually mean?
Well, let's write some tests.
So typically what you do
when you write a test and
something like jest is you import
the code you want to test.
So in this example,
I want to import from utils.
Sorry, I can't do that.
We got to do this one.
Got to do some require stuff.
I'm gonna import from utils and
I want to get NewUser and
then map object to array, so we got that.
And then what you would normally do here
is you would do something called describe,
and you can see I tried to
autocomplete from yards.
I don't want the yards one,
I want the jest one.
And typically the way described is is like
you're describing the piece of code that
you're about to test in this case.
Let's test the map object to array first.
So 'mapObjectToArray.
And I'm gonna do that to let
you know that it's a function.
So we're gonna test that,
this is what we're describing.
And then each thing that we want to test,
each assertion if I
must rewrite a test function for
it not to be confused with.
You see it tried to include the test
global from jest which is the same thing,
but we don't need to do that
because it's injected for us.
So now we can say test.
And then I can actually write like,
what do I want to test?
Well, let's look at the code.
I want to make sure that this puts the,
I'm gonna make sure that it calls,
now I want to make sure that it actually
just does what is supposed to do.
It returns an array of all the map values.
So I'm going to pass it something and
then I'm going to see what the output is.
And if it doesn't match,
it didn't do its job.
So either the code is wrong or my test
is wrong, and we had to figure it out.
So I'm going to test that it maps
values to array using callback.
So that's what we're going to test, and
now what we can do is we can
say results=mapObjectToArray.
I'm going to pass in an object and
we'll call it, this is a food order.
So, where's there a shake, yes.
Did we have fries and were they good, no.
And was it fast, yes.
So we have these objects here,
we want to map them to an array.
So if my code is doing what
I think it's doing well,
I guess now I got to pass it
a callback equals to that.
Let's do that was, so
a call back over here.
So if we do a call back, I can take
each one of these should be like a k and
a v here a key and a value.
And I'll just basically,
actually, this is not a good one.
Let's do some numbers here.
Numbers will be better to test,
let's say age:30, height:65 whatever.
So we got that, so
now if I map over these and
I say return V* or V+10, there we go.
So I should get back
an array of two things.
And it should say 40 and 75.
So that's what I expect.
So I'm going to say expect which
is another global from jest.
You can see I try to auto
import I don't need it.
So I can say expect(results).
Then I can say toEqual and I want to do
equal because I'm about to compare two
arrays that are two different arrays
in memory we have the same value.
So toEqual is a deep equality check and
not a exact match.
I want to do an exact
match I would say toBe.
And that would say is this array exactly
this array and that's not what we want,
we just want to make sure
they have the same values.
So I'm going to say it should
be an array of ([40, 75]).
So let's try that, so now what we can
do is we can run the npm tests, and
I think we're gonna get an issue because
we have this other test file here.
Let's get rid of this right quick so
it doesn't interfere.
I'll just rename it and just not
put a speck in there, there we go.
So now I can just say npm test.
And you can see jest says
cool this pass this file.
Here's what you were testing.
Here's the actual test.
Check mark means it passed, 1 passed
of the all the test suites, 1 total,
total tests,
snapshots of already snapshots.
What we're not doing, and
just how long it took in general.
And then it ran all test suites.
So as you can see,
the output is this a lot better.
If you can imagine just a bunch of
these with green checkmarks on them, or
red X if they failed.
This is a lot easier to see and
visualize than anything else.
So it's not that like is
doing anything different.
It's just one it gives us a better output.
And two, it's a little easier
to develop with in my opinion.
Although asserts really
not that bad is just,
there's a lot of setup
here that I had to do.
Whereas jest, yeah, there's a lot of
ceremony with the describe in the test.
I think it's necessary ceremony,
it kind of works.
So that's how you would write
just a basic test here,
we can move on to doing
something like a spy.
So for instance, we know that we
have to pass in a callback here, but
I want to test to make sure that
the callback actually gets called.
I'm not sure that if it gets called
I want to make sure that it does,
so callback gets called, so we'll do this.
And we'll just copy this right here.
But before, I'm not gonna
actually add this callback here.
I don't really care
what the callback does.
I'm just gonna call this a mock
callback and I'm gonna make that.
So, const mockCb = jest.fn.
So that's just gonna
create a mock callback.
And as you see, I'm using this jest
keyword here, that's also injected into
the global space because we're running
it into adjust runtimes, pretty amazing.
So now I can say,
expect(mockCb).to).
It's like expect(mockCb).
What is it, I can't remember,
I have it here.
In my test, what we want to see,
yeah, mockCb.mock.calls, there we go.
Sorry to keep up with, so
that (mock.calls.length).toBe,
well, I know this callback
is going to run for
as many key value pairs as
in this object right now.
There's 2, so it should be 2,
should have been called twice.
So, I'm gonna check that out.
To see if that works.
Let's make this fail so
we can see what happens.
So let's make that fail.
And you can see right there,
we got a fail on mapObjectsToArray,
callback gets called that failed.
Expected 2, I'm sorry,
expected 33, but received 2.
And you can see where it colors out,
so here's the expected and
here's what it actually got.
And even points to like where
you wrote the code, and
then you get all this really cool stuff.
So it's really great how this works.
So now you will go back like well, no,
this test is right you should
have been caught 33 times.
So now the code is wrong,
but more realistically,
it looks like my test is wrong.
So obviously I will change that to 2 and
now my test will work.
So now we get all these green check marks,
which is like the best feeling.
It's so
good when you do a pull request and
the CI says you're good to go
to all those green check marks.
It feels so good because then like,
you'll be out.
You'll like, do a PR and
then you'll walk away and
you'll go like fix a grilled cheese.
Then you look at your slack from
the bot that messaged you and it says,
your test failed.
And you're just like dang,
I can't even eat this grilled cheese
now cuz no one was gonna hit you up.
You got to do a rollback or whatever.
So it was really nice to
see those green checkmarks